start with  git init  . this will create files that keep track.

 

git config - use to store your details

-- git config --global user.name "john tekdek"

-- git config --global user.email "john@gmail.com"

 

 

git status-- tells u the statusof the repo and asks if u want to commit it

git add --- stages the file for commit . any changes made to the file after git add will not be committed

 

git rm <file> to remove a file

git commit -m

 

 

git log -- view log of all commits  ( Press Q to quit)

git show <hash> -- if u dont provide hash, it will show the latest, use the hash to get details

 

 

git diff shows the info on what you have not yet done a git add on.

git diff --staged show the info that you have staged but not yet commited.

 

git reset HEAD <filename> get rid of the changes that you have added but not commited

 

git checkout <hash>-- allows you to view your project as it was at a particular commit


To Deal with Existing / Other Peoples work:
- Fork the Repo so that you have control over your fork,
- Make commits in your fork to change to what you want
- Contact the owner of the upstream repo,show ur changes, ask the owner to pull your changes into the upstream repo. thsi sis a pull request

git checkout master --- takes you back to the most recent/latest position

 

git remote add <name> <url> --- the 'name is a nick name, you can have many remotes i.e git lab ,github etc
git push -u origin master

git remote -v --- lists all the remotes that the repo knows about

git push  -- sends commits from your repo to another repo

git push -u origin master --- this sets the origin remote as the defaults remote  -u is for upstream * do this once! subsequently, just run git push

git pull -- gets commits from anotehr repo to yur repo and updates ur files with those changes. can specify a remote or it will use default
git pull performs two operations:
git fetch and git merge    fetch just brings down and merge will update

git clone <url> --- this makes a copy of a repo . the local copy is a full ,complete repo with all commits and history. the local copy has a remote named origin
